{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Can John Hickenlooper Still Become Colorado\'92s Senator?; Looking through history to see what the success rate of former Presidential candidates are in the Senate after they drop out.; /index.html; Noah Caldwell-Gatsos; mailto:ncaldwellgatsos@gmail.com; @ Noah; 8/8/19; 12:40PM CST; /projects/elections/images/bp6front.jpg; Governor John Hickenlooper\'92s staff has recently bought out domain names related to a Senate bid.; Google Images; 1P; 2P; 3P;4P; 5P; Senate; 2020; Colorado; Hickenlooper; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.politico.com/story/2019/08/08/hickenlooper-run-for-senate-1648679"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://www.politico.com/story/2019/08/08/hickenlooper-run-for-senate-1648679}}; Hickenlooper faces buzzsaw if he drops out to run for Senate; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://gazette.com/news/hickenlooper-cracks-door-open-to-challenging-cory-gardner/article_84e9a4cc-b7e6-11e9-be0a-bfac2e4743c6.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://gazette.com/news/hickenlooper-cracks-door-open-to-challenging-cory-gardner/article_84e9a4cc-b7e6-11e9-be0a-bfac2e4743c6.html}}; Hickenlooper cracks door open to challenging Cory Gardner; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-every-senator-ranks-according-to-popularity-above-replacement-senator/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-every-senator-ranks-according-to-popularity-above-replacement-senator/}}; How Every Senator Ranks According To \'91Popularity Above Replacement Senator\'92; EP1; EP2; EP3; EP4; EP5; EP6; EP7; EP8; EP9; EP10;\
\
Would you want to vote for someone who openly despised the position they\'92re running for when asked by local newspapers? Would you want to vote for someone who only decided to run locally when their national ambitions flailed? Those are exactly the questions that Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado will face when he drops out of the 2020 Democratic Primary sometime in the next couple of weeks. Politico reported today that he\'92s <a href=\'93https://www.politico.com/story/2019/08/08/hickenlooper-run-for-senate-1648679\'94>met with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer</a> and has already began having aides buy web domain names associated with a bid for Senate. He\'92s clearly keeping the backdoor open, especially with his flagging poll numbers. \
\
Hickenlooper\'92s a popular guy, but he\'92ll be facing another competitive primary when he gets back home. In his absence, the Colorado field has begun to grow just as fast as the national primary, largely because Sen. Cory Gardner is a Republican incumbent in a state Hillary Clinton won by 4 points in 2016. His main rivals - former State Senator Mike Johnston (who ironically managed to outraise Hickenlooper\'92s <b>presidential campaign</b>) and former Ambassador Dan Baer - have both raised formidable sums of money. In many ways, Hickenlooper would play the role that his main hinderance, Joe Biden, plays in the National Primaries: a white, elder statesman with a moderate voting record and high name recognition. \
\
My first instinct when I came across the idea of Hickenlooper dropping out to run for Senator was to look back and see if something similar had happened in general elections before. There\'92s always been plenty of folks who have run for President <b>while</b> being Senators (Ted Cruz in 2016) and just gone back to doing that once they lost. There\'92s been folks who have simultaneously run for re-election as Senators while campaigning for President (Marco Rubio in 2016). I had a harder time finding someone who wasn\'92t already an incumbent attempting to run for Senate after their presidential ambitions had failed. \
\
I had to go all the way back to 2008, with former Virginia Governor Jim Gilmore dropping out of the Republican Primary before the election, to find someone who had charted a similar course. He lost his attempted race for Senate - with the <b>worst showing for a Republican candidate in Virginia since 1988</b>, losing 34% to 65% in a \'93Lean Democrat\'94 environment. Despite his later weakness in the general election, Gilmore had easily crushed his primary challenger through Virginia\'92s convention system. The fact that I haven\'92t found anyone else in the past forty years who \
\
}